Getting started with Slony-I

Installation

Before you can begin replicating your databases with Slony, you need to
install it.

Requirements:

Any platform that can run PostgreSQL should be able to run Slony-I.  The
platforms that have received specific testing at the time of this release are
FreeBSD4X-i368, FreeBSD5X-i386 FreeBSD5X-alpha, OSX10.3, Linux2.4X-i386
Linux2.6X-i386 Linux2.6X-amd64, Solaris2.8-SPARC, SOLARIS2.9-SPARC and
OpenBSD-sparc64.

The following software packages are required to build Slony-I:

GNU make.  Other make programs will not work.  GNU make is often installed
under the name gmake; this document will always refer to it by that name. (On
some systems GNU make is the default tool with the name make) to test for GNU
make enter gmake version  It is recommended to use version 3.76 or later.

You need an ISO/ANSI C complier.  Recent versions of GCC work.

A recent version of PostgreSQL *source* is also required.  Slony-I depends on
namespace support so you must have version 7.3 or newer to be able to build
and use Slony-I.

If you need to get a GNU package, it comes in the standard packaging for your
operating system, or you can find it at your local GNU mirror (see
http://www.gnu.org/order/ftp.html for a list) or at ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu.)

If you need to obtain PostgreSQL source, you can download it form your
favorite PostgreSQL mirror (see http://www.postgresql.org/mirrors.php for a
list), from http://www.postgresql.org/download or via BitTorrent at
http://bt.postgresql.org/ .

Also check to make sure you have sufficient disk space.  You will need
approximately 5MB  for the source tree during build and installation.

Getting Stony-I source

You can get the Slony-I source from
http://gborg.postgresql.org/project/slony1/

After you have obtained the file, unpack it.

gunzip slony.tar.gz
tar xf slony.tar

This will create a directory Slony under the current directory with the Slony
sources.  Change into that that directory for the rest of the installation
procedure.


Short Version

./configure with-pgsourcetree=<path/to/your/pgsql/source>
make all
make install

1.  Configuration

The first step of the installation procedure is to configure the source tree
for your system.  This is done by running the configure script.  Configure
needs to know where your PostgreSQL source tree is, this is done with the
with-pgsourcetree=</path/to/your/pg/sources> option.

Example: ./configure with-pgsourcetree=/usr/local/src/postgresql-7.4.3

This script will run a number of tests to guess values for various dependent
variables and try to detect some quirks of your system.  Stony is known to
need a modified version of libpq on specific platforms such as Solaris2.X on
SPARC this patch can be found at http://gborg.postgresql.org/project/slony1/ 

2.  Build

To start the build process, type

gmake

(Remember to use GNU make) The build make take any ware from 30 seconds to 2
minutes depending on your hardware.  The last line displayed should be

All of Slony-I is successfully made.  Ready to install.

3.  Installing Slony

To install Slony-I, enter

gmake installation

This will install files into postgresql install directory as specified by the
--PREFIX  option used in the PostgreSQL configuration.  Make sure you have
appropriate permisions to write into that area.  Normally you need to do this
as root.
